In this section we are discussing questions and the concepts about Ajax and XML as to DP request object,
which is also known as the X AJA.
The category is of course, asynchronous JavaScript, and there are nine related questions discussed
in this section.
Assume a web page where you have a dropdown list of countries.
On selection of country you are supposed to fill.
The state data of the selected country in the next dropdown.
It means on selection of country.
That is a request sent on the server to fetch the data of states and those states will be filled in
this next dropdown list.
There are two main things in this example.
Number one, make a call to the server or in other words, call a rest API or an API on the server.
Number two, the data which is retrieved at the client end needs to be displayed.
Now, when I say displaying the data in early days of web development, it used to refresh the entire
page for each data retrieval because of Ajax are also called as an AJAX call.
You can fetch the data from the server and display without refreshing the entire page.
So Ajax is about making an SDP call to the web service API or rest API and that too.
Without refreshing the entire page, you display the data.
JavaScript gives the fetch API nowadays to make an Ajax call.
But earlier there was an object called XML HDP request, which is still there but not used often.
ExxonMobil as should be request object is often referred to as etc. The full form of Ajax is asynchronous
JavaScript and ExxonMobil.
This last word Excel in Ajax is not refer to the example data format, but it is the reference of ExxonMobil.
SDP Request Object Only.
In this section we are discussing ExxonMobil SDP request object, which you should know as an expert
of JavaScript.
But let me also tell you that these days we are using a far better option for Ajax, and that is the
Fetch API, which we will discuss in our forthcoming sections.
Let's practically try to code using XM allegedly request object, which now on I'm going to refer as
an exit jar.
I'm taking a commonly used fake API called Jason.
Please hold placeholder.
Because right now we are not creating any server side API.
I'm using a site called Jason Placeholder, which has a way to call the fake API.
They give you the fake API and the data.
Say, for example, these are the resources we have posts, comments, albums, photos, tattoos, users,
etc..
Let's say click on comments.
This is the data you get.
Now this data, we want to get in our JavaScript code.
So we are going to make an AJAX call, or we are going to call this rest API and we will get the data
at client site.
The first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create an object of the exit.
Ah, so I'll say SML as GDP request.
So now we have the request object, which is an instance of this XML SDP request class.
Now the next step is that you configure this request object with an open method.
The syntax of open method is like this.
Here the matter argument is any edge deep request method like get to fetch the data post to add or insert
data put to edit the data or delete to delete the data.
There are many other options with this method also.
So in our code we will write request not open.
What we want is that we want to get the data.
The next parameter is you are an and is the easiest to understand.
It is the you are the string or in other words, the part or location where the request will be sent.
The other arguments are optional.
Async is a boolean parameter and by default it is true this parameter decides whether the process of
call will be asynchronous or synchronous anyway.
By default it is true, and it means by default it will be asynchronous.
If you give false, it means it will block the rest of the process unless the request is done with the
job somewhat like the alert which stops the execution unless it is acknowledged.
The user and password parameters are for the authentication purpose, but the values are null by default.
So in our code we just want to add that you are told that you are l, which I am going to copy from
this place.
So I'll paste it here.
Here is the URL.
You can consider the open method as a kind of settings method.
You have set the parameters.
The actual connection is made with this send method.
So once you open the next method, you have to call is this send method child to request, not send
the syntax off.
The send method is something like this.
It has an optional body.
If you do not specify any value in this send method, then it will pass a null value.
Otherwise you can pass the data which you may want to send with the request, especially like post to
request, maybe delete our added request as well.
So here we are just going to make a get request will say send and no parameters in it.
Now once you have sent the request to the server, you should receive the data.
When the data is received, you need to show there is an event called Load which is fired when the exit
transaction completes successfully.
So on load event we can display the data and that's how I'm going to configure request dot on load.
I'm going to assign a function here.
Now how am I going to display the data?
I'll say console.log.
The request object will have a property called response.
Early days we used to write response text also, but we just go with response nowadays.
So the response property contains the body content of the response which is received.
Let's run discord and see what happens in the console.
We get the output because we try to display the response.
So now you know, the exits are objects, methods like open and send our event like load and property
like response.
But there are other methods, events and properties which are equally important and useful.
For example, when you received the data from the server, that is always a status returned by the server.
The status has numbers as well as text.
The S&P statuses dot com gives you an idea about how the codes are decided by the community.
Here you see that starting from 100, there are various values.
200 that means okay.
So okay will be the text which you will receive and 200 is the value for that to zero one is when the
successful post request is made.
There are various codes we have listed here, so you can check it right now.
Our concern is that we want to see that what is the status when we receive this response.
So along with this I'm going to write console.log request, not the status.
Let's try to run this.
You see that the first value displayed is 200, which is the status.
Imagine that that is an issue on the server.
For example, I just changed the spelling of this comments.
Now that is an invalid.
You are ill.
So when I run this, this is going to give me 404 and it also displays a message itself.
As long as the response is concerned, there is no value in it.
In this case, that is a better way to deal with coding.
So what we can do is we can put any condition here.
If the status is 200, that means it is successful, then we display the response.
Otherwise we can display a proper message that
invalid request or whatever the related messages.
So now if you run is going to display the error message properly.
And the moment you correct this or let's say the server is running fine, then we will have the data
displayed here.
Now let's try one more property named response type.
I will add request dot response type is equal to let's add Jason.
Now if we run the data format, the response which we have here is automatically converted into the
JSON format by default.
Earlier it was text, but when you see a response type is equal to Jason, it will take care.
The response will automatically be a kind of object literal where you have the data here.
If I expand this, you will get the idea how the data is presented.
So you see that array and the object literal data we have here.
The values for response type other than Jason are you can put simply blank audio and text.
It means the data is text only.
If you say blob, it means it is binary data.
And if you see a document that is for HTML or SML document type of data, this is how you use the response
type property.
That is also a timeout property and timeout event related to this object.
Let's try that.
Also, for example, I'll just set a timeout saying request dot timeout.
I want that the call should wait for 2000 milliseconds.
That is 2 seconds.
If the call exceeds 2 seconds, then it should come out of it.
That is, the request is timed out in a way.
We can also configure an event.
I can see request dot on timeout.
It means when the timeout is over, let's say, and still the request is not completed, then we display
a message console.log.
Timeout.
Now if I run because we have given 2000 milliseconds, that is it is the sufficient time to fetch the
data.
2 seconds, but let me just reduce one zero.
So now it is just 200 milliseconds and this takes more time.
So now if I run it has executed the timed out and because the timeout was 200, it executed the on timeout
event as well.
So you can set the call timeout with the timeout property and you can handle it with the on timeout
event.
There is also an event on progress which is fired continuously when a request receives data.
On Adder is one event which is fired when there is an error encountered while requesting.
So you can see a request dart on progress and you have a function like this.
There is also one more important and commonly used event called on red state change.
This event is fired when a property called real estate changes.
The real estate property can have these different values.
So once the request is made, this real estate will keep on changing its value.
Initially, it will be zero.
Once the open is called, it will be one.
When this scent is called, it will be true.
When the data starts downloading, it will be three.
And when everything is done, it will be four.
That means the operation is complete.
Let's try to configure on real estate change, so I'll just simply write on ready state change event
here.
So right now what I will do, I will remove this time out, which we don't need.
We don't even need this else condition for the moment.
And this timeout is also not required.
Now, changing this to under state change and adding a request dot ready state is equal to full and
the status should be 200.
Now, if you run this, it has a validation that everything is done with a ready state and the state
as is 200.
Then we display the value in case if you want to abort the request, you can use the method.
Request dot abort.
This is how you write it.
The extra object also allows you to set and get at UDP headers.
The syntax is you have the object name dart set request header is the method name where you can decide
which header you want to set and what is the value.
You have to call this method immediately after open and before this send to set the headers to get the
value of response headers you can use get all response headers method and get response header method
as well.
Let's try first of all, get all response headers.
Also console log request, don't get all response headers.
Now this should display all the headers which is with the response.
So let me run this.
As you can see, that cache control content type expires and program.
Now, for example, let's take content type for the moment.
Let's say you want to have this content type value so you can say console.log request dot get response
header which header you want you want just content type, content, dash type.
Right?
So now let's run.
You see this?
It displays the only response header that is the content type.
So two methods you have to get the response headers.
The should be request object is something which is used for very few things now, like uploading files
and stuff like that.
Otherwise, nowadays people are using the Fetch API to make an AJAX call.
If somebody is using the framework like React or Angular, Angular has SDP client or SDP services and
React can use fetch api are also zero can be used.
So XML SDP request object that is exigent is not often used nowadays, but still you should know how
it works.
In the forthcoming sections we are going to discuss about how the other ways that is the newer ways
we have to deal with the AJAX calls.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is what is an Ajax or what is Ajax call?
So now we know that when we say Ajax, that means we are making a call to the server to maybe fetch,
delete, retrieve or edit the data.
We also make a HDP call for files.
Also, we may download or upload a file.
We explicitly make call to the servers.
That is, SDP calls with Ajax and with the help of Ajax, the screen does not.
The browser window does not refresh only the section of browser window gets a refresh.
That is the use of Ajax, and to make any Ajax call we use the exit jar object or even fetch API.
Nowadays we use it.
Second question, how will you set a timeout with an exit request?
So we have already seen that like this.
We have the timeout property where we can decide number of milliseconds and of course we can attach
the event timeout that is on timeout along with the exit our object.
The third question is how can you set the data format for a response?
So we already have the response type property where we can decide whether the data is binary or even
JSON or text.
So the data format can be decided using the response type property.
The fourth question is explain ready state property of x AJA.
So we have already discussed about the ready state property.
These are the different values.
That is zero one, two, three and four, depending on various stages of ADX call.
We see that the ready state property changes.
The fifth question, explain the honorary state change event.
So honorary state change event is fired when there is a new value in the ready state property and it
is a better way instead of on law.
It is a better way that you use the honorary state change to deal with the data manipulation.
So whenever there is a change in the registered property, this event will be fired.
And depending on the state that is, you check the ready state and depending on the state you can take
various actions though we have just tried ready state for because we wanted to show the data when everything
is done.
But let's say you want to show a progress bar so you can say that when ready state is three constantly
it will be three.
That means the data is received at client side constantly.
Once it is four, that means the data is received and the job is done.
The sixth question is how can you force the exit request to stop the execution?
So we have the abort method, which helps us to stop the request in between any process.
When is the Lord event called to the Lord?
Event is called when the call to the server is completely successful at that time on load can be configured.
Load event is executed when the Ajax call is successfully completed.
Eight Question is how will you set the GDP headers?
Also explain the sequence.
So as GDP header, we have seen that we have set the request header method which helps us to set the
SDP headers.
It's just that you have to make sure that after open method you have to set the header and before the
send method as well.
So it will be something like this.
The thing is that you have to use this method between this open and sign.
That is the condition.
The ninth question is explain different ways of getting response header values.
So this is how we have done this.
The get all response headers will display all the headers and if you want to get a specific header,
then you can use the GetResponse header like this.